README.md, before:

# provinode-scan

Native iOS app for Provinode room scanning (M1):
- LiDAR-gated ARKit capture
- secure LAN pairing + QUIC streaming
- local-first `RoomCaptureSession` recording/export
- persistent scanner identity key for signed secure-channel hello proof

## Requirements
- iPhone Pro with LiDAR (`iPhone 12 Pro` or newer Pro line)
- iOS 17.0+
- Xcode 16+

## Generate project
```bash
brew install xcodegen
xcodegen generate
```

## Build
```bash
xcodebuild \
  -project ProvinodeScan.xcodeproj \
  -scheme ProvinodeScan \
  -destination 'generic/platform=iOS Simulator' \
  build
```

## Test
```bash
./scripts/test.sh
```

## M1 data output
Recorded sessions are stored in app support with this layout:
- `session.manifest.json`
- `samples.log`
- `blobs/sha256/<hash>`
- `integrity.json`

## LAN discovery
- Bonjour service browse type: `_provinode-room._tcp`
- Discovery metadata includes endpoint identity, ports, and pairing TLS cert fingerprint.
- Manual host entry remains available with explicit pairing TLS fingerprint input.

See `docs` in the desktop repo for Vault mapping and reconstruction linkage.

Commit message:

feat: add QR-first pairing UX and simulator synthetic capture lane

README.md, after:

# provinode-scan

Native iOS app for Provinode room scanning (M1):
- LiDAR-gated ARKit capture
- secure LAN pairing + QUIC streaming
- QR-first pairing (camera scan on device, JSON import fallback on simulator)
- local-first `RoomCaptureSession` recording/export
- persistent scanner identity key for signed secure-channel hello proof
- simulator synthetic capture mode for end-to-end validation without physical LiDAR

## Requirements
- iPhone Pro with LiDAR (`iPhone 12 Pro` or newer Pro line)
- iOS 17.0+
- Xcode 16+

## Generate project
```bash
brew install xcodegen
xcodegen generate
```

## Build
```bash
xcodebuild \
  -project ProvinodeScan.xcodeproj \
  -scheme ProvinodeScan \
  -destination 'generic/platform=iOS Simulator' \
  build
```

## Test
```bash
./scripts/test.sh
```

## M1 data output
Recorded sessions are stored in app support with this layout:
- `session.manifest.json`
- `samples.log`
- `blobs/sha256/<hash>`
- `integrity.json`

## LAN discovery
- Bonjour service browse type: `_provinode-room._tcp`
- Discovery metadata includes endpoint identity, ports, and pairing TLS cert fingerprint.
- Manual host entry remains available with explicit pairing TLS fingerprint input.

## Simulator workflow
- Start `provinode-room` in simulation mode (`--simulation-mode true --webcam-source synthetic --calibration-source synthetic`).
- Call `POST /pairing/start` on desktop and copy `pairing_qr_payload` JSON.
- Paste payload into the iOS simulator QR import panel and tap `Import QR payload`.
- Pair, start capture, and stream synthetic samples to desktop receiver.

See `docs` in the desktop repo for Vault mapping and reconstruction linkage.
